3
Installation and running the code
The code consists of two python scripts (match cells.py and generate cell.py)
and requires no installation, compilation or special python packages out of the
standard Linux distributions. It is distributed as a gzipped tar file containing
the two python scripts and 2 directories with examples.

Running of the code is somewhat described in the theory part of the manuscript and we repeat it here briefly. 
Having the POSCAR files of the selected input unit cells - POSCAR 1 and POSCAR 2 the user first runs the first script:
        > python match cells.py POSCAR 1 POSCAR 2
obtaining the output file results.dat in which typically several options are
offered for generating a common supercell - given under the index numbers.

Selecting the supercell with index 1 is done by a command:
        > python generate cell.py 1
which produces a common supercell file named POSCAR COMMON CELL.
This ends the program run. Several options to the both python codes are
available and are described in detail below.

CODE OPTIONS

For match cells.py
The list of available options is:

--nindex nind
Integer number nind for search of common unit cell vectors, the values in code
go from -nind to +nind, the default value is 10.

--tolerance tol
Tolerance – float value tol – for detecting that two supercell vectors con-
structed from different unit cells are considered identical. Defined as length of
the vector difference divided by vector length. Default value 0.01.

--rotate rot
Rotation angle rot (in degrees) for the first unit cell. Default value is 0. The
first unit cell (POSCAR 1) will be copied into a file POSCAR 1 rotated 0.0.

--maxatoms mat
Integer number mat for maximum number of atoms in the supercell, if the
supercell with larger number of atoms is found it will not be printed - default
value -1 - meaning that maximum number of atoms is infinite.

--maxstrain mstr
Float value mstr for maximum strain in the supercell, supercells with larger
strain value will not be printed - default value -1 - meaning that maximum
strain is infinite.

--unique 0/1
Unique switch 0 or 1, default value is 1. In case of 0 value all possible realizations of the equivalent supercells will be printed out.

--output outfile
Name of the output file outf ile. Default value is results.dat, this file is used
by generate cell.py to create common supercell.

--show progress 0/1
Show progress switch 0 or 1. Default value is 1 and the progress is printed on
the screen. For example in high-throughput applications running on cluster
etc. it might be convenient to suppress the on screen output.


For generate cell.py

--input file infile
Input file name inf ile from which the parameters are read to generate the
common supercell. The default value is results.dat.

--tolerance tol
Tolerance integer value tol used in determining repeating periodic cells in order
to generate atoms for the common supercell. This parameter with default value
of 1 should not be changed. If it happens that some atoms are missing in the
final supercell - please report, and try to increase the value.

--tolerance float tolf
Tolerance float value tolf used to determine which atoms obtained by repeat-
ing the original (small) unit cells lie within a new common supercell. This
number as well as tolerance should not be changed. In case that some atoms
are missing try to increase the value, while in case that there are too many
atoms in the supercell decrease the value. Default value is 1e − 4 - and please
report such cases.

--shift11 --shift12 --shift13 --shift21 --shift22 --shift23 shift
Shifts along the unit cell vectors for the two original unit cells. For example
− − shif t110.5 option will shift the atoms of the first unit cell by 0.5 a1 unit
cell vector.

--shift1x --shift1y --shift1z --shift2x --shift2y --shift2z shift
Shifts along the Cartesian axes for the two original unit cells. For example
− − shif t1x3.5 option will shift the atoms of the first unit cell by 3.5  ̊A along the x–axis.

--output outfile
The name of the output file. Default value is POSCAR COMMON CELL.

--zfix zf
The value zf in  ̊A of the z–coordinate below which the atoms of the common
A super cell will be fixed for VASP selective dynamics. The option ”F F F”
will be written. In the case of negative value zf the atoms above the −zf
coordinate will be fixed.

--draw 0/1
The draw switch 0 or 1. In case of value of 1 the code will draw a supercell
generated from unit cell 1 and unit cell 2 - the mismatch will be visible to
estimate the strain. Original unit cells are drawn as well.

